---
permalink: /about
author: muziejus
---

# About

Here’s where we take the space to be a bit more optimistic and hopeful about
what “we,” which is currently a few people who attended a conference and
subsequently joined a GitHub group, are all about. Currently, the way I (now
taking the authorial voice) see it, we are engaged in three processes,
teaching, collaborating, and disseminating. And our shared object is both
“space in literature” as well as “literature in space,” but typically
emphasizing their connections and interrelations.

## Teaching

As a core mission of Mapping the Text, “teaching” means welcoming and
introducing new scholars to this field. Yet even “scholars” is broadly
understood. Perhaps a professor finds this site and uses the materials we link
to to teach themselves how to build a website with a map representing places
in a novel, only to then also use our supplemental information to help create
a syllabus on literary geographies.

Or perhaps our scholar is a child not yet ready to boast of an age with two
digits, yet hopelessly fascinated by Minecraft, for whom
[Litcraft](https://chronotopiccartography.wordpress.com/litcraft/) becomes a
point of entry into thinking about a novel spatially, for both business
(school) and pleasure (wanting to read more). 

That is to say, teaching is not just in the well funded, R1 university
environment.

## Collaborating

Mapping the Text joins that list of often digitally mediated research
collectives, among whose aims are encouraging felicitous collisions that lead
to future collaboration. Of course, little to no scholarship is done without
collaboration, though it often [skirts by insuffiently recognized because of
hierarchies and other inequalities](https://www.npr.org/2017/03/30/521931310/-thanksfortyping-spotlights-unnamed-women-in-literary-acknowledgements).
Digital projects typically rely on a team of people who straddle several fields of
expertise, and even an old-fashioned separation of labor into “intellectual”
and “technical” only serves to underscore the intellectual bankruptcy of the
so-called “intellectual” laborers, as one thing that digital projects
invariably demonstrate is that the technology persistently presents its own
obstacles to the “intellectual” work—but it also provides unpredictable escape
routes, allowing the “intellectual” work to flourish in ways it could not have
without the additional, “technical” labor.

That is, collaboration is inherent in scholarly work. What isn’t is
appropriate recognition of the dynamics that produce collaborative work. Yet
the hope is that by providing these sorts of areas where teams can meet teams
or see what other teams are up to, all of our contributions will be understood
and valued.

Furthermore, and perhaps more pressingly for those teams pressed for time and
other resources, collaboration feeds in the collective human years of
experience to provide an a priori foundation for a scholar, thereby letting
them avoid reinventing the wheel. Instead, the scholar can improve the
already existing wheel, if so inclined. 

As such, Mapping the Text aims to model collaboration in both senses. In
supporting the disclosure of the collaborations, we aim to support the
inherent collaborative nature of scholarly work. However, we also aim to
lessen a siloed approach to work, pushing for a model outside of the
deliverables-for-grant model that encourages repetitive sui generis work in
the name of rigor, innovation, or impact.

## Disseminating

Finally, in pursuing disseminating as a goal, we double down on the
pedagogical and collaborative goals outline above by making using
dissemination as a means by which we enact our pedagogy and collaboration. To
this end, Mapping the Text not only showcases work done by members, but also
aims to be current with work of interest by non-members, passing along that
work to members. Including foundational works in this list, the hope is to
create a crowd-sourced annotated bibliography, say, about mapping the text
that serves both pedagogical and collaborative ends. Everyone wins!

In the future, Mapping the Text may adopt more explicit aims of dissemination
that fall more in like with “traditional” modes of scholarly communication,
but for now, this website and the labor given to it by its members, will
suffice.

## Space in Literature and Literature in Space

At our (inaugural?) conference, Eugenia Afinoguénova noted being in the
presence of fellow chronotopians, and Bakthin and the chronotope are guiding
lights. As Katerina Clark and Michael Holquist note, for Bakhtin, the
chronotope is how people at different times and different places interact with
reality. It is a localized space/time (in contrast to Kant’s universal
space/time), and the “most paradigmatic expression of past chronotopes is to
be found in literary texts.” Because authors live in worlds, “they are
ineluctably forced to employ the organizing categories of the worlds that they
themselves inhabit.”[^1] Through the chronotope, which Clark and Holquist
characterize as “a bridge, not a wall,” we see the way in which studying
literature in space and space in literature are, in fact, two sides of the
same coin.[^2] 

In a 2012 issue of _Slavističa revija_ devoted to “centering interest on
questions related to the development of mutual influences between (socio-)
geographical space and Slovene literature,” Urška Perenič highlights the
“reverse influences” that call to mind the chronotope.[^3] Avoiding the terms
“literary geography” and “literary cartography” as too narrow, Perenič doesn’t
really offer a counter term. One way of getting past the mouthful of “Space in
Literature and Literature in Space,” we believe, is by talking about “mapping
the text.” 

## Organization, membership, etc.

What else to say? The above is a sort of manifesto, or a set of guiding
principles, or, ahem, a map for Mapping the Text. The rest is informal and
uncertain. If you’d like to join, get in touch with us either [on
Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/maptxt) or
[GitHub](http://github.com/mapping-the-text/).

## Footnotes

[^1]: [Clark and Holquist]({{ site.baseurl }}/sources/ClarkHolquist1984), 278.

[^2]: [Clark and Holquist]({{ site.baseurl }}/sources/ClarkHolquist1984), 279.

[^3]: [Perenič]({{ site.baseurl }}/sources/Perenic2012), 


