---
layout: default
permalink: /cfp-2018
title: 2018 Conference Call for Papers
---

# Mapping the Text

<div class="row">
<div class="col-4">

## Deadline for submissions: 
December 22, 2017

## Full name / name of organization: 

Moacir P. de Sá Pereira w/ the [NYU English Dept.](http://as.nyu.edu/english.html) & [NYU Libraries](http://library.nyu.edu)

## Contact email: 
conference-2018@mapping-the-text.org

### Organizers

Moacir P. de Sá Pereira w/ the [NYU English Dept.](http://as.nyu.edu/english.html) & [NYU Libraries](http://library.nyu.edu)

### Date

Saturday, 21 April 2018

### Location

Bobst Library, New York

### Website

http://mapping-the-text.org

</div>
<div class="col">
## Call for Papers

### **Mapping the Text** (2018)

### Proposal submission deadline: 

December 22, 2017

### Description

Proposals for papers and panels are now being accepted for the “Mapping the
Text” conference, part of the annual Culture Mapping event hosted at New York
University by [NewYorkScapes](http://newyorkscapes.org), a research community
dedicated to exploring the literary, historical, and social aspects of the city
of New York using digital forms of scholarship. 

**Mapping the Text**

Our scholarly landscape surrounds us with spatial turns in both the humanities
and social sciences. Additionally, the arrival of mapping software suites with
low barriers to entry has prompted a new interest in supplementing these
spatial turns with digital, geographical visualizations. The boons to fields
like history or archaeology/anthropology have been immediately apparent, but
other humanistic fields have often made use of this software mostly to answer
historically and geographically driven questions, namely by using digital
geospatial visualizations to show how objects have moved through the “real
world” to generate networks of influence, such as in Stanford’s “[Mapping the
Republic of Letters](http://republicofletters.stanford.edu/)” project. In so
doing, this work reproduces a distinct separation between the world outside a
text and world(s) inside a text.

In “Mapping the Text,” our aim is to convene scholars who have crossed this
ontological line and have begun linking the “real world”(s) mediated by
software packages with the worlds that emerge inside of texts, where both
“worlds” and “texts” are understood broadly. Topics should feature both
spatiotemporal/digital components to textual analysis and could include: doing
geospatial work on a budget, doing geospatial work on texts from before or
outside the Cartesian plane, geospatial visualization in contrast to or
supplementing analysis, minor texts and minor geographies, handling and
creating geospatial data, teaching the geospatial through texts, and more.

**Submit proposal**

All proposals for papers and panels must be submitted through the [conference’s
webform](/conference-2018/submit)

For details on using the submission database and on the application
process in general, please see our [Proposal Submission FAQs and Tips](/conference/proposal-tips-faqs)

The deadline for submissions is December 22, 2017.

We also have a page [for travel information](/conference-2018/travel).

With any questions about the “Mapping the Text” conference, please contact its
organizer, Moacir P. de Sá Pereira, New York University, at moacir@mapping-the-text.org

We look forward to receiving your submissions.

</div>
</div>
